1. Why is react also called as library of javascript
   A. Because react can even use in small part of the html code , like we use libraries in programming..

2. Difference btw carat and tilde in dependies present in package.json
   A. carat (^) - it can automatically install versions of small change like minor updates in versions ,
   tilde (~) : it can automatically install versions of big change like major updates in versions .
   Eg for ^ : old version : ^2.8.10 --> new version ^2.8.11
   Eg for ~ : old version : ~2.8.10 --> new version ^3.8.10

3. What can parcel do ?
   A. Parcel works great for building single or multi-page React applications

4. Whats is JSX ?
   A. JSX is nothing but React.createElement().. means it simplifies the syntax..by allowing to write html syntax rather than creating React.createElement()..
   NOTE : whatever you wrote in JSX ... it looks like HTML ..but it is note html

5. If you wrote something in JSX , who will convert the code to React.createElement() ---> then object....
   A . Babel
   // GO to babel website .. and see how it is converting

6. What is babel ?
   A. Babel is a js compiler , Babel can convert JSX syntax to react element !

7. what is used to integrate React componenets into web application by rendering them ?
   or
   who will render react components into web application ?

A. ReactDOM

8. Why do you think the class attribute in html is replaced with className in JSX ? why can't we just use "class" same as we did in html ??
   A. Because class is reserved keyword in javascript.. it makes conflicts if we write it as attribute.. jsx could'nt able to understand whether it is attribute or keyword.

9. see above ques first then --> But we can use class attribute instead of className in JSX also , why ?
   A. Because modern versions of React and ReactDOM are designed to handle both HTML and JSX attributes in a flexible manner .

10. What is react component ?
    A. Everything in a react is component !
    It consists of two types :

- class based component
- functional component

11. Why should i create react component starting with capital letter only ? why not with small letter ?
    A. In react , components starting with capital letters are treated as custom components , where as starting with small letters are treated as built-in HTML elements . Starting components with uppercase letters helps React to distinguish between custom components and regular HTML elements .

12. What is functional component ?
    A. A function which return piece of JSX code is called as funcitonal component .

13. What is component composition ?
    A. Writing component inside the component .

14. How can you write js code inside the jsx ?
    A. By using curly braces we can write any piece of js code inside the jsx

15. How can you use React component inside the jsx  
    A. There are two ways
    <Component name>
    {Component()} ---> because functional component is function at the end of the day

16. What is props in react ?
    A. Passing props to component is nothing but passing argument to function in js . Both are same
17. Why we need unique keys while looping in jsx ?
    A.Because if something new adds into the data , react would not know what came new . So it will re render all of them . If we create unique id's for each item in the data , then optimization will increase .
18. Can we access key through props ? if no why ? if yes how ?
    A. No , we can't access key through props , because react handles key internally and doesn't pass through props to the component.
    However, if you want to access the key, then you have to send it externally via props by using another name other than key.
19. Why react is faster ?
    A. Because it manipulates DOM very fast
20. What is react hook ?
    A. React hook is nothing but javascript utility functions comes with super powers .
    1. useState()
    2. useEffect()
21. whenever a state variable changes or updates , react will re-render our component ? why ?
    A. Because if we use react hooks in our component , and if any changes made in that variable , react automatically updates our UI along with data .
22. what is virtual dom and diff algorithm ?
    A. Virtual Dom is an in memory representation of actual dom or copy of original dom stored in the memory . Whenever a change occurs in state variable , Diff Algorithm compares old and new virtual dom and find out the difference so that we can update only those updated parts , instead of updating the whole dom.
23. What is React Fiber ?
    A. It is the new version of diff algorithm .
    https://github.com/acdlite/react-fiber-architecture
24. What is optional chaining in js?
    A.In the chain of object property access we can check that each value is not undefined or null. This check can be extremely useful when accessing deeply nested object values.
25. What is condition rendering?
    A. Rendering the page based on the conditionn is called condition rendering .
26. What happens when state variable changes ?
    A. Whenever state variable in react changes , the react will automatically re-renders the component .
27. Who will provide routing configuration to our app ?
    A. RouterProvider will provide routing config to our app.
28. How can you put your header in every route ?
    A. I can put my header in every route by making every component as childs of my appComponent , so whenever an url comes in , then we use an component called "Outlet" provided by reactRouter . This will automatically fills the element or component of particular path .
29. How to prevent reloading entire page of our UI whenever routing to other page ?
    A. We can use a component called "Link" which can be imported from react-render-dom , Link component works same as anchor tag in html , but it has "to" instead of "href" . This link will allow user to navigate to other routes without reloading the entire page .
30. <Link to="">.... In Link , what is "to" refer to ?
    A. In Link component "to" refers to "prop" which takes the route  path to navigate to .
31. Example for SPA (single page application) ? and why it is called so ?
    A. React is a single page application , it is called as spa because , in react we never relods the page , means even in routing , we have components like Link which can prevent reloding the entire browser .
32. How many types of routings are there?
    A. There are two types of routings :

        1. Client-side-routing
        2. Server-side-routing
           Our react is a client-side-routing .. becoz it is SAP , and doesnot relods the page while routing

    ------------------------IMP ques -------------------------- .

33. why should i give unique key whenever i use map in jsx or whenever i create new elements dynamically ?
    A. Becoz react uses this key internally to identify each element and decide whether that element has changed or not . If you don't give unique key to the elements then react would confuse which element it should update , and it might re-render the entire list .
34. What is componentDidMount in react ?
    A. componentDidMount is present in class Based component and it works like a useEffect (but not same) in functional component . It gets invoked right after our component is rendered into DOM .
35. What is the disadvantage of SPA ?
    A. Since single page applications do not have separate pages like normal web apps, and doesn't relod , it loads all the javascript code into our app...let say you have created a setIntervel in componentDidMount or in useEffect in your home page...It will create new setIntervel whenever you visit the home page again...and it keeps doubling,triple and so on every time u visit home page .....we can clean this mess by using componentWillUnmount in class based component and a return function in useEffect (whenever you leave your current page , return function in useEffect will be called).... watch namaste react episode 8 after 2:20:00.....
36. What is lazyloading ?
    A. We can load components only when they are needed not at the time of loading whole app . To do that we don't import the component directly , rather we import like this
    const ComponentName = lazy(()=> import("path"));
    If we write like this...that means we are splitting our bundle into two js files ...
    So that we can bundle our js files dynamically .
37. What is higher order components in react ?
    A. Higher order component is a function which takes component and returns component
38. What is controlled and uncontrolled component ?
    A. If a component controlled by another contolled component then it is known as controlled component .
    If a component not controlled by any other component then it is known as uncontrolled component .
